well you are Secretary of State Anthony
blinkin has met with Palestinian leader
Mahmud abas in Jordan Mr abas Heads the
Palestinian Authority which controls the
occupied West Bank he told Mr blinkin
that he rejects the forced displacement
of Palestinians in Gaza after days of
Silence since the Hamas terror attack
that killed more than 1300 Israelis the
Palestinian leader finally condemned
violence against civilians by both
sides
well our senior International
correspondent uh fny fasar is in
Jerusalem and she told me more about
that meeting between the president of
the Palestinian Authority and the US
Secretary of State that meeting is quite
important in fact it's pretty much the
only channel that the United States as
well as the International Community has
when it comes to uh the Palestinian
territories because Hamas as a which is
designated a a terrorist organization is
obviously not the organization that the
us is going to seek any kind of
channeling with they are turning to the
head of the Palestinian Authority uh uh
president abas who's been seen already
yesterday meeting Jordan's King King
Abdullah II and it's expected that
pretty much what's been talked about
there in Jordan uh with Mr Abdullah is
also part of the conversation between
blinkin and abas and that is number one
how to deescalate the situation and also
how to make sure that the humanitarian
corridors in place to help aid getting
in to Gaza Strip now uh the US Secretary
of State blinkin meeting uh the head of
the Palestinian Authority is important
because he is in charge or partially in
charge of occupied West Bank however uh
Mr Abbas doesn't have any control
whatsoever since 2007 over Gaza and also
it's very important diplomatically even
though there may not be any immediate
result from that meeting for the United
States from the US perspective in this
realm of several meetings that are on
the way that are uh to expected to
happen uh for example Mr blinkin is to
go on from here from Jordan to uh meet
uh the leaders of Qatar and the leader
of Saudi Arabia all in an effort trying
to deescalate uh the US government says
but also in an effort trying to somehow
release the hostages many of them are
also American in fact Qatar has already
offered some sort of a mediation here
with Hamas they have close contacts with
a Hamas militant group trying to release
this hostage
but as we're hearing apparently at least
according to the militant arm to the uh
to uh the militant arm of the hammer
group apparently 13 captives have been
killed already uh during air strikes by
Israel last
night let's talk now to Middle East
security analyst Jonathan Spire also in
Jerusalem uh welcome to DW I'd like to
talk about the the the role of of the of
the Palestinian Authority leader um uh
Mahmud Abbas in this we'll come to his
comments in a in a sec but first let's
start with his silence nothing until uh
Anthony blinkin uh arrives what do we
make of
that I'm afraid what we need to make of
it is that Mahmud Abbas in a certain
sense is responding rationally to his
situation which is that he and the rala
Leed the malab based rather Palestinian
Authority are simply not uh players in
the uh drama current unfolding in the
Gaza Strip and in Israel because of
course as as we know since 2007 say for
16 years now since the Hamas uh expelled
his organization fatak and the PA from
the Gaza Strip they have not wielded
power or authority or indeed maintained
any consequential even political uh
presence inside Gaza so mmad abess has
been silent because as the saying goes
in English whereof one has nothing to
say thereof one should be silent I think
he seems to be following that edict and
it's perfectly understandable
and he opens his mouth now and I I'll
just read you the the quote that I have
here he call for an immediate end to the
comprehensive aggression against the
Palestinian people he also rejected
practices related to killing civilians
or ambushing them on both sides so
obviously quite an evenhanded approach
no condemnation specifically of Hamas uh
there what do you make of
that well absolutely um abas is I
suppose following the usual uh line in
Palestinian politics whereby he will
avoid criticizing other Palestinian
factions which are engaged in Warfare
against Israel I don't think anybody
particularly needs to be surprised by
this because it's been a constant
pattern really with a and the PA over
the last couple of years to avoid any
such condemnation uh you know I think
what it further indicates really
certainly many Israelis I think will see
it as further indicating the extent to
which no partner really for dialogue
unfortunately exists on the Palestinian
side nobody's under any allusion iions
regarding one the one side of
Palestinian politics Hamas but really I
think what abbas's response shows but it
won't come as a surprise I think either
to Israelis or to many observers of the
situation is that he also from his basic
standpoint I'm afraid doesn't really
constitute a partner for any coherent
diplomatic process or progress uh to be
made but again I don't think this needs
to really surprise us this is abas
acting very much within the parameters
which he's acted for some considerable
time now so given what you say about uh
Mr abas having no influence or authority
over there in Gaza why is um Secretary
of State blinken uh why is he there
talking to
him yeah that's actually an excellent
question and I'm afraid I personally
find it rather difficult to to answer I
mean secretary blinken it's understood
you know as the as a representative of
the the superpower and of a country
which also affords a large amount of Aid
by the way to the Palestinian Authority
wishes to speak to to all players on the
ground so to speak but yeah I would have
to also question really in my estimation
at least whether that's a useful use of
his time at the present time but I think
your correspondent also pointed out and
correctly that of course the Americans
have no open dialogue with Kamas because
Hamas is a designated Terror
organization so I suppose secretary
blinken wants to meet with somebody from
the Palestinian side so he's chosen to
meet with as I said at the beginning the
somewhat irrelevant leader of the ramala
Palestinian Authority at the present
time who has no say no uh clout so to
speak no ability to influence events on
the ground in the Gaza Strip and
obviously not on the Israeli side either
so who either in the region or anywhere
else is in a position to influence uh
Hamas um activities we we've heard in
the the last couple of days about uh qat
uh being used as some sort of U
intermedi intermediary intermediary are
they the only
people the I would say that Hamas really
in the Middle East region has three uh
countries or states which are Allied or
aligned or supportive of it on one level
or another and those three countries are
Islamic Republic of Iran the Republic of
turkey and the emirat of Qatar now with
regard to Iran the Iranians of course
are the main military or indeed the only
military backers only significant
military backers of Kamas the Kamas
military capacity the m302 missiles the
F even the Tactical abilities that were
uh displayed on Saturday derived from
the relationship with Iran so one could
seek to talk to Iran Iran but of course
that wouldn't be very useful because the
Iranians are basically supportive of the
Hamas uh Slaughter which took place on
Saturday and of their military efforts
that leaves you with turkey and Qatar
who are not militarily backing Hamas but
they do maintain close diplomatic
relationships with the movement and
indeed Kamas leadership top leadership
is currently resident in Doha in Qatar
so yes I think if one want if one were
looking to establish a Channel of
communication with Hamas the sensible
way to do it would probably go through
Qatar and that does indeed appear to be
what is uh what is taking place my own
sense at least certainly from the
Israeli side at least what we're seeing
publicly is that there's currently very
little interest actually in a diplomatic
Channel Israel wants to hit back
militarily at the slaughter and murder
of its citizens that took place on
Saturday and I think there's probably
going to be or I think it's we can all
conclude really there is going to be a
military chapter to this on the ground
before any diplomacy of any kind really
has a realistic chance of moving forward
but yes Qatar is the address I would say
for westerners and for westerners
seeking to Western countries seeking to
make uh contact with and communication
with Hamas thanks for that it's very
clear a security analyst Jonathan Spire
in
Jerusalem let's talk more about the
blinken visit with Ian ler he's vice
president of the German Marshall fund
that's a public policy Think Tank
welcome to DW what influence can the US
bring to bear on this situation given
that it's been largely absent uh from
the this Middle East issue over the last
few
years well there are some important
aspects of American influence in this
above all over uh Israeli strategy and
policy uh but even that of course would
have its limits I mean as we can see
with the blinkin visit there are
attempts to engage with uh with
nonviolent Palestinian political
elements those have been ongoing of
course for a very very long time but the
Palestinian Israeli track of the peace
process as you say has not has not
progressed in many many years um beyond
that when it comes to the hostage crisis
and other aspects of this situation I
think the American influence is actually
rather limited and but it is very
important for the United States to talk
to countries like Qatar and turkey who
may be able to play a role in that
regard when it comes to the military
side of things of course the United
States has much more
leverage because you you you factor into
that as it as the the US talks to uh to
Kata and and turkey and obviously not
Iran the three main uh people who can uh
influence uh
Hamas that has to be seen uh under the
the the shadow of America saying we
absolutely and unwaveringly back Israel
which kind of limits its room for
maneuver
well I think it does but I think it's
also inevitable because that is that is
long-standing American policy and and
that really transcends the fact that uh
prime minister Netanyahu is not entirely
popular in Washington in many quarters
and there have been many differences
with Israel in recent years uh there
could be differences over strategy now
but the basic principle of supporting
Israel after this devastating attack I
think is is is is solid and I think the
Biden Administration or indeed any other
American Administration would have
pursued exactly the same course I think
that's that's it goes without saying the
US is also in talks with Egypt about
trying to create a humanitarian Corridor
to allow civilians to uh flee Gaza uh
the only Crossing into Egypt at the
moment the Rafa Crossing we told is
being bombed by Israeli aircraft so is
such a humanitarian uh passage Corridor
and likely to
happen well it's possible it's possible
also that that might
be a place to establish a Carter for
supplies to come into Gaza to Southern
Gaza um of course Egypt is is not keen
on having uh Hamas or indeed uh
Palestinian refugees from Gaza coming
into Egypt Egypt is already concerned by
jihadist terrorism inside the country uh
and you know the fact that the Border
has been closed is really in part for
many years the the result of Egypt not
wanting it to be open so uh I I think
this will be rather difficult but as the
situation evolves and becomes more more
serious and more desperate in
humanitarian terms uh there may be an
opening on that front and the United
States actually could play a role in
talking to Egypt about that so the the
US has a limited uh diplomatic heft in
this particular uh situation but it is
on on the the military side sending an
aircraft carrier and warships to the
region as well as boosting military aid
uh to Israel so let's talk about the uh
the role of military defense in the US
playbook in in this
situation well I think that forces that
have been deployed to the Eastern
Mediterranean are are in part a signal
of political support to Israel over the
situation in Gaza but I think more
importantly it's about the potential for
escalation in Lebanon involving hisbah
and Iranian back militias and even Iran
directly perhaps under some
circumstances and there you know having
these additional American forces
available would make a very very big
difference I think at the moment it's
all about deterrence but the other piece
of this Which is less visible but maybe
as as important as anything else is the
intelligence cooperation that is surely
going on between Israel and the United
States and others who have hostages um
in Gaza um we have to see how this
situation evolves but obviously there
are things that can be done on the
intelligence gathering and even the
Special Operations front uh where the
United States could play a significant
role right so it sounds unlikely that
that the US Secretary of State is going
to come away from this uh this visit
with anything that looks like
success well this the nature of the
situation at the moment makes it very
difficult to Define what anything that
would look like success might look like
um I I think you know simply making this
Vis I do apologize Ian ler from the
German martial fund we're going to cut
it there because we're we're going now
to a a press conference between the the
US defense secretary and the Israel
Defense secretary thank you so much for
joining us
though the secretary and I have just
left the warm we set where decisions are
made on Israeli Security on our most
sensitive
interests I brief the secretary on
strategic developments in our region and
the chief of staff together with the IDF
leadership shared our our
operations defense cooperation and US
support in the Pentagon in the White
House in the Congress ensure freedom of
operation and enforce our
capabilities in fact today
we will receive the second aircraft
carrying essential munition to the
IDF us deployment of assets on land in
air and at Sea sends a strong message on
to both our partners and enemies in the
region on beh
of Israel's defense
establishment and of be on behalf of our
citizens Mr secretary thank you very
much let me remind you all our audience
who is the enemy our neighbors is Hamas
the Isis of Gaza an organization
enjoying the Iranian
payroll I cannot not let the world
forget the brutal attacks Hamas
terrorists
conduct against Israeli children Israeli
women Israeli elderly and entire
families murder rape
kidnapping this is what we face in this
war this is a war on the existing of
Israel as a prosperous State as a
democratic State as the homeland of the
Jewish
people this is a war on
freedom and on our common values and we
are on the front
line we will keep fighting and we will
win this war we will prevail
with your permission Mr secretary I'll
say few words in
Hebrew
[Music]
okay so you're watching DW news live
from Berlin we're watching a press
conference given by the US uh defense
secretary and the Israeli defense
secretary that's Lloyd Austin and youf
Galant Mr Galant now speaking addressing
the the meeting in Hebrew uh he he
started off about two or three minutes
ago in English um thanking Mr Austin for
the for us defense cooperation which he
said was to ensure the freedom uh of the
operation and to extend is capability so
he's thanking them for their Military
Support he also talked I think he talked
about an aircraft carrier being uh uh
may put at the disposal of uh uh Israeli
Defense Forces uh he said the US uh
deployments send a strong message and
then described Isis excuse me it
described Hamas as the Isis of Gaza and
being on the Iranian uh payroll you'll
recall how um throughout this last just
just under a week Israel has been
comparing uh what happened uh last week
Saturday to Pearl Harbor and uh 9911
combined this he said is a war on the
existence of Israel and a war on uh the
freedom and on our common values we will
keep fighting and we will win this war
he said so uh this is what's go this is
what you're watching uh now uh on here
on DW um you have and speaking in uh
Hebrew uh we'll uh dip in a little more
and then we'll hear uh very shortly from
the US defense secretary Lloyd Austin
this of course on the same day that the
uh US Secretary of State is also uh in
the region on the same
issue
thank you
sir well good afternoon
everyone y have we've been in close
touch but it's good to see you again in
person and it's good to be back in
Israel even during such terrible
days as a US Secretary of Defense I am
here in
person to make something Crystal
Clear America's support for Israel is
Ironclad and I extend my deepest
condolences to the Israeli people for
those killed or wounded in this terrible
Slaughter by
Hamas I'm also here in solidarity with
all the fames still living the waking
nightmare of not knowing the fate of
their loved
ones and we will continue to coordinate
closely with Israel to help secure the
release of the innocent men women and
children in the clutches of
Hamas including American
citizens now Israel is a small
country a place where everybody knows
everybody and in times of
trial the intimacy of your
Society deepens the intimacy of your
grief but that's not a
weakness it is a profound
strength and in times of test
in Israelis know what to
do over this awful week we've seen
Israeli hotels and
homes Tak in those who've had to to
flee we've seen long lineups to donate
blood we've seen whatsapps explode with
messages as people race to support
Neighbors in
anguish and perhaps because I'm a
retired General
en I was especially moved by the story
of a retired General named Noam
T-Bone his son called him on Saturday
from his home near Gaza to say that
Hamas terrorists had stormed their
caboots and were closing
in and the retired General jumped into
his car in Tel Aviv and raced toward the
combat zone he linked up with other
Fighters and rescued his son his
daughter daughter-in-law and his
granddaughters and when the general
arrived at their
house one of his granddaughters just
said Grandpa's
here and these are arrays of Hope in a
terrible
week and in times like these Sometimes
the best that a a the best thing that a
friend can do is just to show
up and to get to
work
now this is no time for
neutrality or for false
equivalence or for excuses for the
inexcusable there is never any
justification for
terrorism and that's especially
true after is rampaged by
Hamas and anyone who wants lasting peace
and security for this
region must condemn and isolate
Hamas Hamas does not speak for the
Palestinian people or their legitimate
hopes for dignity security and statehood
and peace alongside
Israel as a former commander of Central
Command the deliberate cruelty of Hamas
vividly reminds me of
Isis
bloodthirsty fanatical
and
hateful and like Isis Hamas has nothing
to offer but
zealotry
bigotry and
death the world has just witnessed a
great
evil the deadliest attack on civilians
in the history of the state of
Israel and the bloodiest day in Jewish
history since the end of the
Holocaust
so make no
mistake the United States will make sure
that Israel has what it needs to defend
itself and Israel has a right to protect
its
people you know and there are many phone
calls this week President Biden has told
prime minister Netanyahu that the United
States would also respond swiftly and
decisively to such a ma massive
terrorist
assault and the President also Al
underscored that democracies like
ours are stronger and more
secure when we
uphold the laws of
war terrorists like Hamas deliberately
Target
civilians but democracies
don't this is a time for resolve and not
revenge for purpose and not
panic and for for security and not
surrender at President Biden's direction
we have moved urgently to respond to
this
crisis and to send to send a strong
message of
deterrence the USS Gerald R Ford carrier
strike group is now in the
region led by the largest aircraft
carrier in the
world we've augmented us fighter
aircraft squadrons in the Middle
East and the US Department Department of
Defense stands fully ready to deploy
additional assets if
[Music]
necessary as President Biden has
said for any country for any group or
anyone thinking about trying to take
advantage of this
atrocity to try to widen the conflict or
to spill more
blood we have just one
word
don't
the world is
watching and so are
we and we aren't going
anywhere we will remain in close contact
with our valued Partners across the
region and security assistance from the
Department of Defense is
already rapidly flowing into
Israel that includes
Munitions and air defense
capabilities and other equipment and
resources it also includes more
interceptors for Iron Dome to save
israeli's Israeli lives and we will
continue to ensure that Israel has what
it needs to keep itself
secure now Hamas attacked at a time of
global
challenge but the United States is the
most powerful country in the
world and we remain fully able to
project power and uphold our commitments
and direct resources to multiple
theaters so we will stand with
Israel even as we stand with
Ukraine United States can walk and chew
gum at the same
time and US SEC security assistance to
Israel will flow in at the speed of
war and as this harrowing week draws to
a
close and as Shabbat draws
near we stand
together and we stand
strong United States has Israel's back
and that is not
negotiable and it never will
be and after this terrible week I wish
you and all the people of Israel shabbat
shalom thank
you we'll be starting with the question
starting with Alon B Channel 13
thank you Mr okay so you you're watching
uh DW you're watching a uh a live press
conference between the defense
secretaries of the United States and
Israel obviously uh in reaction uh to uh
the events of almost a week ago uh yav
Gallant the um the Israeli uh defense
secretary spoke first uh and talked
about defense cooperation between their
two countries to as he put it ensure the
freedom of operation of Israeli Defense
Forces and to extend their capabilities
uh he and the US Secretary of State both
talked about uh the deployment of a US
battle group uh to the Mediterranean and
um Colonel Austin uh made the point or
repeated the point that came uh from
President Biden uh the warning uh to
anyone thinking of extending the
conflict he said we have just one word
uh don't uh it was so what we're going
to do now is go back to that press
conference and listen to the question
and answer
session listening to um the Israeli uh
defense secretary there answering a
question in Hebrew one of the biggest
points of uh this conflict that people
have been talking about is where uh us
how the US will respond to this new
conflict as it uh is also uh dealing uh
or leading the efforts to uh help
Ukraine against Russia and the US
Secretary of State was very uh firm
about that the Hamas attack came at a
time of global challenge he said we will
stand with Israel even as we stand with
Ukraine Gaza rise while Israel conducts
its counterattacks and perhaps a ground
Invasion do you believe the moral
culpability for those Palestinian deaths
belongs to Israel Hamas or
both I'll leave it to Israel to uh to
talk about its potential plans and uh
its approach to uh conducting
operations uh Matt I'll just uh um say
again that Israel has a right to defend
itself and we will support Israel's
right to defend itself we will continue
to flow in security
assistance
and I've worked with Israeli forces over
the years over many years as you know I
wore a uniform for 41
years my experience in working with
Israeli forces is they are professional
they're disciplined and they are focused
on the right
things and so I expect that uh going
forward they will continue to exhibit
that same degree of professionalism that
we've seen in the past but you know Matt
we've seen this
before uh the International Community
fought Isis uh who in some cases was uh
was embedded uh deeply in builtup areas
and that International
Coalition uh fought
valiantly and prot protected civilians
and created corridors for uh
humanitarian uh movement even in the
midst of a of a pretty significant fight
so again this is a professional force it
is well-led and I I have every
expectation that it will be
disciplined thank you and for Minister
Galant let's get more from our senior
International correspondent funny FHA in
Jerusalem welcome funny let's start with
that meeting between uh the defense uh
minister mins of the two countries talk
us through what they
said well basically the Us official US
Secretary of Defense they made it very
Crystal Clear just like his colleague US
Secretary of State Mr blinkin yesterday
who I met prime minister netan here in
Israel that the support of the US is
very much basically comparable to a
blank check whatever the whatever Israel
needs how long it needs it us is going
to be there and as he says that support
is iron class so uh when it comes to the
US basically the message make no doubt
about any of that that United States is
going to stand side by side with Israel
now that what I find quite interesting
in that statement within this Prince
conference that I was uh just listening
to as well is that uh the defense uh uh
Ministry there also made clear without
actually precisely naming Iran for
example or Iran backed hisbah the
militant group uh in Lebanon for example
he made very PR much Clear whoever wants
to benefit from this and interfere
shouldn't he used the word don't uh
pretty much uh the same H remarks are
made already by US President Biden uh
prior to that so once again another Us
official here in Israel making clear
that the US has Israel's back uh
meanwhile as these uh states are being
made of course people especially
Palestinians ask themselves what about
the uh humanitarian consequences what
will that support of the United States
for Israel Israel trying to defend
itself as it says and trying to take
Hamas out the militant group from Gaza
what does that really will mean what
will that mean for people in a Gaza
Strip and and and how will you be able
to make sure uh that the humanitarian
consequences here are not going to
explode into really an apocalyptic
situation in Gaza Strip
and uh the other big issue of the day is
this IDF order to people in Northern
Gaza to leave to the South and what sort
of response are you seeing uh there from
uh
Jerusalem basically uh what what what
what people are trying to understand
here first of all that that order by IDF
by Israeli military to say basically
half of uh the population there in Gaza
Strip that's 1 million ion about 1
million should move from the north to
the South how is this practicable at all
how is that how how should that be put
in action while obviously the constant
bombings while there constant air trikes
air strikes already we're hearing from
Palestinian uh officials that
apparently, 1500 people have been killed
in Gaza Strip among them five 500
children at least so uh for one Israel
warning basically the Palestinians by
saying move from the north to the South
but with in 24 hours which is H as the
UN says impossible to do without any
humanitarian consequences is a way for
Israel to war to warn but on the other
hand how can you really help the people
the ordinary citizens uh in who are
caught up in this and who are literally
trapped in the situation in Gaza Strip
as the next step is likely to unfold
quite soon which is the a full scale
invasion of israelian forces in Gaza
Strip thank you that funny funny in
Jerusalem